[ADD] Payroll: adding detailed payslips doc (#4213)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/payslips.rst

Payslips
========

In Odoo *Payroll*, the :guilabel:`Payslips` drop-down header menu consists of three
sections: :guilabel:`To Pay`, :guilabel:`All Pay Slips`, and :guilabel:`Batches`.

.. image:: payslips/payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Payslips menu selection in Payroll.

These three sections provide all the tools needed to create payslips for employees, whether an
individual payslip, a batch of payslips, or commission payslips.

To pay
======

Click on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Payslips --> To Pay` to see the payslips that need to be paid.
On this page, Odoo displays the payslips that have not been generated yet, and can be created from
this dashboard.

.. image:: payslips/all-pay-slips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View all payslips that need to be paid by clicking on Payslips - To Pay.

Each payslip will list the *Reference* number for the individual payslip, the *Employee* name,
*Batch Name*, the *From* and *To* date range, the *Company*, the *Basic Wage*, *Net Wage*, and the
*Status* of the payslip. Clicking on an individual payslip entry will show the details for the
individual payslip.

.. _payroll/new-payslip:

Create a new payslip
--------------------

> A new payslip can be created by clicking the :guilabel:`Create` smart button in the top left.

Author: I also added the second way to create a payslip (since it can be done from 2 different spots)

  to from the drop down.
- :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: In the *Accounting Information* tab, enter the salary journal the
  payment will be reflected in in the *Accounting* applicaiton.

.. important::
   It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure any entry that affects the
   *Accounting* application is correct.

Optional fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 - :guilabel:`Reference`: Any note or reference message for the new entry can be entered here.
 - :guilabel:`Company Car`: If applicable, select the company car from the drop down.
 - :guilabel:`Worked Days`: In the *Worked Days & Inputs* tab, the entry under :guilabel:`Worked
   Days` (the type, description, number of days, number of hours, and amount) will be automatically
   filled in based off what was entered for the period, contract, and structure.
 - :guilabel:`Salary Computation`: This section will be automatically filled in after the
   :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` smart button is clicked. This will display all the wages, deductions,
   taxes, etc for the entry.
 - :guilabel:`Batch Name`: Select the payslip batch this new payslip should be added to from the
   drop down.

>  - :guilabel:`Made Payment Order`:

Author: OMG I can't believe that was left blank! I have an open question on this to 3 different people, waiting for them to get back to me.

>  - :guilabel:`Made Payment Order`:

Author: OK, I just checked with the PO and the support person- this is an outdated item that does not do anything! They are going to work now to remove this box since it has been doing nothing for several versions before 14.

>  - :guilabel:`Made Payment Order`:

Author: Apparently Make Payment Order doesn't do anything and hasn't in a while! They are going to remove this from the app, so I'll delete this line.

 - :guilabel:`Date Account`: Enter the date the payslip should be posted to by clicking on the drop
   down and navigating to the correct month and year by using the arrow icons, then clicking on the
   date.
 - :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: The journal that the payslip will be logged in is automatically
   selected when the *Contract* and *Structure* are entered (required fields).
 - :guilabel:`Accounting Entry`: Ths field is automatically filled in once the payslip is confirmed.

Save and process new payslip
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When all the information is entered, click :guilabel:`Save` to save the data, or click
:guilabel:`Discard` to delete the entry.

.. image:: payslips/save-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Save the payslip once the information is complete.

> Once saved, click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` smart button to register all the information, and

Author: No- you can click that. I just think Saving is a good practice to have- I added a note to elaborate this.

.. image:: payslips/payslip-chatter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The new payslip is emailed to the employee and the email appears in the chatter.

Next, payment must be sent to the employee. Click the :guilabel:`Make Payment` smart button, and a
pop up will appear asking which *Bank Journal* the payment should be made against. Select the bank
journal from the drop down, then click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button.

.. image:: payslips/make-payment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click Make Payment to send the payment to the employee.

If a payment needs to be cancelled or refunded, click the corresponding :guilabel:`Refund` or
:guilabel:`Cancel Payslip` smart buttons.

All payslips
============

To view all the payslips regardless of status, go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Payslips -->
All Payslips`. In this view, all payslips are organized by batch (in a default list view).

Click on the arrow next to the individual batch name to view all the payslips in that particular
batch, along with all the payslip details. The number of payslips in the batch is written in
parenthesis after the batch name. The status for each individual payslip will appear on the far

> right, indicating if it is in draft mode or if it is done.

Author: Checked with ZST - singular backticks it is!

.. image:: payslips/all-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View all payslips organized by batches. Click on the arrow to expand each batch.

Click on an individual payslip to view the details for that payslip. Using the breadcrumb menu,
click *Employee Payslips* to go back to the list view of all payslips.

A new payslip can be created by clicking the :guilabel:`Create` smart button, and enter all the
information as described in the :ref:`Create a new payslip <payroll/new-payslip>` section.

To print payslips to a PDF, first select the payslips by clicking on the individual checkbox next to
each payslip to print, or clicking on the box next to :guilabel:`Reference`, which will select all
visible payslips. Click on the :guilabel:`Print` smart button to print the payslips to a PDF file.

.. image:: payslips/print.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the Print smart button to print payslips to a PDF.

Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. When exporting, all paylsips will be exported
regardless if some are checked off/sletected or not. Click on the :guilabel:`Export All` smart

> button (download icon) to export all payslips to an Excel spreadsheet.

Author: I looked, too! Nothing quite like it, and since it is a bit specific and not universal, like the trash can I used (it was a stretch since our can is different from the emoji on) I figured best not to put something in that didn't fit.

.. image:: payslips/export.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the Export All smart button to export all payslips to an Excel payslip.

.. note::
   Both *To Pay* and *All Payslips* display all the detailed information for each payslip.

Batches
=======

Click on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Payslips --> Batches` to display all the payslip batches that
have been created in a list view. Each batch will display the name, the to and from dates, if it was
a credit note, the status, and company.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch. To make any modifications, click on
the :guilabel:`Edit` smart button. Make any changes needed, then click either :guilabel:`Save` to
save the changes, or :guilabel:`Discard` to revert back to the original data. After modifications
have been saved, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` smart button to create or modify any

> payslips affected by the changes.

Author: Done and done! Good idea!

.. note::
   Both Selecting a department and/or salary structure will only display payslips that apply to
   those selected parameters.

If there are an errors or issues preventing the payslips from being generated, a detailed error will
appear in the top right section. The box will disappear after several seconds, or click the X to
close the alert. Make any modifications, such as removing any payslip lines that cannot be
processed, then click the :guilabel:`Generate` smart button again.

Once the payslips have been generated, the screen returns to the batch. Click the
:guilabel:`Generate Draft Entry` smart button to chnge the payslips from draft mode to done. Once
payslips have been generated, click the :guilabel:`Make Payment` smart button to process the
payments. A pop up will appear so the banking information can be entered. Select the *Bank Journal*
from the drop down, and enter the file name. Click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button when done,
or click :guilabel:`Cancel`` to discard.

.. image:: payslips/confirm-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Confirm the bank details for the new payslips.

Generate comission payslips
---------------------------

> Commission payslips can be generated in the batches section. Click on the batch or batches to create
> commissions payslips for. Click the :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslips` smart button. A pop up
> appears to fill out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commission payslips can be generated directly from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page (:menuselection:`Payslip app --> Payslips --> Batches`). To generate commission payslips from this page, click on the desired batch (or batches) to create commissions payslips for, then click the :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslips` button. 

Doing so, reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslip` pop-up, in which necessary information must be filled out.
```

.. image:: payslips/commission.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the Generate Commission Payslips to create commission payslips.

> Click on the drop downs next to :guilabel:`Period` and select the period the payslips are being
> generated for. Using the left and right arrow, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date
> to select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this pop-up , click on the drop-down menus beside the :guilabel:`Period` field to reveal calendar pop-ups. On these calendar pop-ups, select the desired period for which the payslips are being generated. Using the left and right arrow, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date in order to select it.
```

> Select the department from the drop down menu. When the department is selected, the employees listed
> for that department will appear in the :guilabel:`Employee` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Department` field, select the desired department from the drop down menu. 

When a department is selected, the employees listed for that department appear in the :guilabel:`Employee` section.
```

> Under the :guilabel:`Employee` section, enter the *Commission Amount* for each employee. To remove
> an employee, click the trash can icon to remove the line. Add a new entry by clicking on
> :guilabel:`Add a Line` and entering the employee name and the commission amount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the :guilabel:`Employee` section, enter the :guilabel:`Commission Amount` for each employee in the appropriate column. To remove an employee, click the trash can icon (` 🗑️ `) to remove the line. 

Add a new entry by clicking :guilabel:`Add a Line`, and entering the :guilabel:`Employee` and the appropriate :guilabel:`Commission Amount`.
```

> Click the :guilabel:`Upload Your File` smart button to add a file. Any file type is accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Upload Your File` button to add a file, if necessary. Any file type is accepted.
```

> Using the drop down, select either :guilabel:`Classic Commission` or  :guilabel:`Warrant` for the
> *Commission Type*. Classi is the most typical type of commission. Warrant is used for Belgian
> companies only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the drop-down menu beside the :guilabel;`Commission Type` field, select either :guilabel:`Classic Commission` or  :guilabel:`Warrant`. 

:guilabel:`Classic` is the most typical type of commission, while :guilabel:`Warrant` is primarily used for Belgian
companies only.
```

Personally, I tend to list the fields of a form/pop-up like this sequentially (top-to-bottom) - not a requirement, just a suggestion, so the reader doesn't have to have their eyes "jump around" too much, while reading the doc. Just a thought...

> Once all the commissions are properly entered, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` smart button
> to create the commission payslips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all the commissions are properly entered, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to create the commission payslips.
```

  available corresponding structures for the selected contract for that specific employee appear as
  options.
- :guilabel:`Payslip Name`: In the blank field, type in the name for the payslip. The name should be
  short and descriptive, such as `April 2023`.
- :guilabel:`Company`: In the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab, select the company the payslip
  applies to from the :guilabel:`Company` drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: In the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab, enter the salary
  journal in which the payment will be reflected, and found in the *Accounting* application.

.. image:: payslips/new-payslip-tab.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The necessary fields for a new payslip in the Accounting Information tab.

.. important::
   It is recommended to check with the accounting department to ensure every entry that affects the
   *Accounting* application is correct.

Optional fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 - :guilabel:`Reference`: Any note or reference message for the new entry can be entered here.
 - :guilabel:`Company Car`: If applicable, select the company car from the drop-down.

>  - :guilabel:`Worked Days`: In the :guilabel:`Worked Days & Inputs` tab, the entries under

Reviewer 2: Let's escape the ampersand just to be safe
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Worked Days`: In the :guilabel:`Worked Days \& Inputs` tab, the entries under
```

If a payment needs to be cancelled or refunded, click the corresponding :guilabel:`Refund` or
:guilabel:`Cancel Payslip` button, located at the top of the payslip form.

.. important::
   In order for a payslip to be paid, the employee *must* have a bank account entered in their
   contact information. If there is no bank information, a payslip cannot be paid, and an error will
   appear when the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button is clicked. Banking information can be found in
   the :guilabel:`Private Information` tab on the employee's card. Edit the employee card, and add
   banking information, if it is missing.

   .. image:: payslips/banking.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Banking information can be entered in an employee's card.

All payslips
============

To view all payslips regardless of status, go to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> All
Payslips`. Here, all payslips are organized by batch (in a default list view).

Click on the :guilabel:`▶ (arrow)` next to the individual batch name to view all the payslips in
that particular batch, along with all the payslip details. The number of payslips in the batch is

> written in parenthesis after the batch name. The status for each individual payslip appears on the
> far-right side, indicating if it is in `Draft Mode`, `Waiting`, or if it is `Done`.

Reviewer 2: Status needs a guilabel since it is a column header on the UI in the active view
```suggestion
written in parenthesis after the batch name. The :guilabel:`Status` for each individual payslip
appears on the far-right side, indicating if it is in `Draft Mode`, `Waiting`, or if it is `Done`.
```

Batches
=======

To view payslips in batches, navigate to :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches` to
display all the payslip batches that have been created. These payslip batches are displayed in a
list view, by default.

Each batch displays the :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Date From` and :guilabel:`Date To` dates,
whether it was a :guilabel:`Credit note`, its :guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Company`.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, modifications can be made. To make any modifications to a batch, click the
:guilabel:`Edit` button. Then, proceed to make any necessary changes.

When all desired changes have been made, click either :guilabel:`Save` to save the changes, or
:guilabel:`Discard` to revert back to the original data.

After modifications have been saved, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to reveal a
:guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up form, in which payslips affected by the changes can be created

> (or modified).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
or modified.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Generate payslips from the edited batch.

Once the draft payslips are created, the button changes to say :guilabel:`Make Payment`. Click the
:guilabel:`Make Payment` button. A pop-up window appears, in which the bank journal information must
be entered. Select the :guilabel:`Bank Journal` from the drop-down list, and click
:guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips, and pay the employees.

On the batch detail page, the number of payslips in the batch is accessible via the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button, located in the top-right corner. Individual payslips for the
batch can be viewed by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top-right corner.

Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page, or back to the list of
all batches.

.. image:: payslips/payslip-batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the Payslips smart button to view the individual payslips in the batch.

Create a new batch
------------------

To create a new batch of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), click the :guilabel:`Create` button in the

> upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank batch payslip detail form on a separate page.
> 
> On this blank batch payslip detail form, enter the :guilabel:`Name` for the batch, and select the

Reviewer 3: I think the best name for this form would be the "payslip batch form," and we should use that consistently throughout the doc
```suggestion
upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank payslip batch form on a separate page.

On the new payslip batch form, enter the :guilabel:`Name` for the batch, and select the
```

date range to which the batch applies, by clicking the :guilabel:`▼ (drop-down arrow)` icon in the
:guilabel:`Period` fields, which reveals a calendar pop-up window. From this calendar pop-up window,
navigate to the correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

If the batch is a credit note, check the box next to :guilabel:`Credit Note`. Then, in the
:guilabel:`Generation Date` field, select the date the payslips should be generated from a calendar
pop-up window. This generated date is reflected in the accounting journal entries.

Lastly, in the :guilabel:`Company` field, select the company these payslips are written against.

> When all the information on the batch payslip detail form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Save`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When all the information on the payslip batch form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Save`
```

button to save the information. To delete the entry, click the :guilabel:`Discard` button.

To create the payslips for the newly-created batch, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button
at the top of the form.

When clicked, a pop-up window appears showing all the payslips that will be created. To remove any
individual payslips, click the black :guilabel:`✖ (clear)` icon at the far right of the payslip
line.

If a specific :guilabel:`Salary Structure` or :guilabel:`Department` needs to be specified for the
batch, select them from the corresponding drop-down menus.

Click the :guilabel:`Generate` button at the bottom of the pop-up window to create the payslips for
the batch.

.. image:: payslips/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Generate payslips for the new batch.

.. note::
   On the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up window, selecting a :guilabel:`Department` and/or
   :guilabel:`Salary Structure` only displays payslips that apply to those specifically-selected
   parameters.

> If there are any errors or issues preventing the payslips from being generated, a detailed error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there are any errors or issues preventing the payslips from being generated, an error
```

message appears in the top-right section. This error box disappears on its own after several
seconds, or the :guilabel:`✖ (close)` icon can be clicked to close the alert.

To remedy the issue, make any necessary modifications (e.g. removing any payslip lines that cannot
be processed), then click the :guilabel:`Generate` button again.

> Once the payslips have been successfully generated, the screen returns to the batch payslip detail
> form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the payslips have been successfully generated, the screen returns to the payslip batch
form.
```

> From here, click the :guilabel:`Generate Draft Entry` button to change the payslips status from

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From here, click the :guilabel:`Generate Draft Entry` button to change the payslips' status from
```

- :guilabel:`Reference`: Any note or reference message for the new entry can be entered here.
- :guilabel:`Company Car`: If applicable, select the company car from the drop-down.
- :guilabel:`Worked Days`: In the :guilabel:`Worked Days \& Inputs` tab, the entries under
  :guilabel:`Worked Days` (including the :guilabel:`Type`, :guilabel:`Description`,
  :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Number of Hours`, and :guilabel:`Amount`) are automatically
  filled in, based on what was entered for the :guilabel:`Period`,
  :guilabel:`Contract`, and :guilabel:`Structure` fields of the payslip form.
- :guilabel:`Salary Computation`: The :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab is automatically filled in
  after the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button is clicked. Doing so displays all the wages,
  deductions, taxes, etc. for the entry.
- :guilabel:`Batch Name`: Located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab, select the payslip
  batch this new payslip should be added to from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Date Account`: Located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab, enter the date on
  which the payslip should be posted, by clicking on the drop-down menu, and navigating to the

>   correct month and year using the :guilabel:`< > (arrow)` icons in the calendar pop-up window.
>   Then, click on the desired date.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  correct month and year using the :guilabel:`< > (less-than/greater-than)` icons in the calendar 
  pop-up window. Then, click on the desired date.
```

date range to which the batch applies, by clicking the :guilabel:`▼ (drop-down arrow)` icon in the
:guilabel:`Period` fields, which reveals a calendar pop-up window. From this calendar pop-up window,
navigate to the correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

If the batch is a credit note, check the box next to :guilabel:`Credit Note`. Then, in the
:guilabel:`Generation Date` field, select the date the payslips should be generated from a calendar
pop-up window. This generated date is reflected in the accounting journal entries.

Lastly, in the :guilabel:`Company` field, select the company these payslips are written against.

When all the information on the payslip batch form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Save`
button to save the information. To delete the entry, click the :guilabel:`Discard` button.

To create the payslips for the newly-created batch, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button
at the top of the form.

When clicked, a pop-up window appears showing all the payslips that will be created. To remove any

> individual payslips, click the black :guilabel:`✖ (clear)` icon at the far right of the payslip

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
individual payslips, click the black :guilabel:`✖ (x mark)` icon at the far right of the payslip
```

(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`). To generate commission payslips from this
page, click on the desired batch (or batches) to create commissions payslips for, then click the
:guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslips` button.

Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslip` pop-up window, in which the necessary
information **must** be filled out.

.. image:: payslips/commission-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the commission details.

On this pop-up window, click on the drop-down menus, located beside the :guilabel:`Period` field, to
reveal calendar pop-up windows. On these calendar pop-up windows, select the desired period for
which the payslips are being generated. Using the :guilabel:`< (left)` and :guilabel:`> (right)`
arrows, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to select it.

In the :guilabel:`Department` field, select the desired department from the drop-down menu.

When a department is selected, the employees listed for that department appear in the
:guilabel:`Employee` section.

Under the :guilabel:`Employee` section, enter the :guilabel:`Commission Amount` for each employee in

> the appropriate column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (delete)` icon to remove the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the appropriate column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash)` icon to remove the
```

========
Payslips
========

In Odoo, the :menuselection:`Payroll` applications handles the processing of payslips and the
distribution of payments, in addition to managing work entries, reports, employee information, and

> contracts.

Author: OH!!!! Hahaha, OK- I didn't realize. I added the first sentence (the more general one) to the Payroll page, and kept the second paragraph which introduces the concept in more detail as the intro paragraph for this doc.

list view, by default.

Each batch displays the :guilabel:`Name`, :guilabel:`Date From` and :guilabel:`Date To` dates,
whether it was a :guilabel:`Credit note`, its :guilabel:`Status`, and the :guilabel:`Company`.

.. image:: payslips/batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View displaying all batches created.

Click on an individual batch to view the details for that batch on a separate page. On this batch
detail page, modifications can be made. To make any modifications to a batch, click the
:guilabel:`Edit` button. Then, proceed to make any necessary changes.

When all desired changes have been made, click either :guilabel:`Save` to save the changes, or
:guilabel:`Discard` to revert back to the original data.

After modifications have been saved, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button to reveal a
:guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up form, in which payslips affected by the changes can be created
(or modified).

All payslips associated with the batch are displayed in the employees section of the
:guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up. To filter the results by either the
:guilabel:`Salary Structure` and/or the :guilabel:`Department`, select a salary structure and/or

> department from the respective drop-down menus.

Author: OMG i had a brain fart, and forgot the 2 words could be separated ^_^

To pay
======

Click on :menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> To Pay` to see the payslips that need to be
paid. On this page, Odoo displays the payslips that have not been generated yet, and can be created
from this dashboard.

.. image:: payslips/all-pay-slips.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View all payslips that need to be paid by clicking on Payslips - To Pay.

Each payslip will list the :guilabel:`Reference` number for the individual payslip, the
:guilabel:`Employee` name, :guilabel:`Batch Name`, the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` date
range, the :guilabel:`Company`, the :guilabel:`Basic Wage`, :guilabel:`Net Wage`, and the
:guilabel:`Status` of the payslip.

Clicking on an individual payslip entry will show the details for the individual payslip.

.. _payroll/new-payslip:

Create new payslip
------------------

A new payslip can be created from the :guilabel:`Payslip To Pay` page (:menuselection:`Payroll app
--> Payslips --> To Pay`) or the :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page (:menuselection:`Payroll app
--> Payslips --> All Payslips`), by clicking the :guilabel:`Create` button in the top-left corner.

.. image:: payslips/create-payslip.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Click the Create button to make a new payslip.

Author: Agreed! It's cut =)

 - :guilabel:`Date Account`: Located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab, enter the date
   the payslip should be posted to, by clicking on the drop-down and navigating to the correct month
   and year by using the arrow icons in the calendar pop-up. Then, click on the desired date.
 - :guilabel:`Salary Journal`: This field, located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab,
   represents the journal that the payslip will be logged in, and is automatically selected when the
   :guilabel:`Contract` and :guilabel:`Structure` are entered in the payslip form.
 - :guilabel:`Accounting Entry`: This field, located in the :guilabel:`Accounting Information` tab,
   is automatically filled in once the payslip is confirmed.

Save and process new payslip
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When all the necessary information on the payslip is entered, click :guilabel:`Save` to save the
data, or click :guilabel:`Discard` to delete the entry.

.. image:: payslips/save-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Save the payslip once the information is complete.

.. note::
   Saving the entry is not required. The :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button can be clicked without

>    first saving the payslip.

Author: Yeah, if you click the 'Compute Sheet' instead of 'Save' before- it will save and compute the sheet, so it's kind of a 2-for-1. I'll clear that up!

Once the payslip form is saved, click the :guilabel:`Compute Sheet` button to register all the
information, and have the :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tab populated. If any modifications need to
be made, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button, make the desired changes, then click the
:guilabel:`Recompute Worked Days` button to have the changes reflected in the :guilabel:`Worked
Days` and :guilabel:`Salary Computation` tabs.

To print the payslip, click the :guilabel:`Print` button. To cancel the payslip, click the
:guilabel:`Cancel Payslip` button.

Once everything on the payslip form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` button to
create the payslip. The chatter is automatically updated to show the email sent to the employee,
along with a PDF copy of the payslip.

> .. image:: payslips/payslip-chatter.png

Author: True! I was showing the where it would be, but realized that's not important  (and if it's a different size it's below it anyway)

> create the payslip. The chatter (to the right side of the payslip form page) is automatically

Author: I totally didn't realize that until I was resizing the screen for screenshots! Correct- I'll remove the reference to location.

   :alt: The new payslip is emailed to the employee and the email appears in the chatter.

Next, the payment must be sent to the employee. To do this, click the :guilabel:`Make Payment`
button. Doing so reveals a pop-up form, in which the desired :guilabel:`Bank Journal` that the
payment should be made against must be selected from a drop-down menu. Then, click the
:guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the journal, and return to the payslip.

.. image:: payslips/make-payment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click Make Payment to send the payment to the employee.

If a payment needs to be cancelled or refunded, click the corresponding :guilabel:`Refund` or
:guilabel:`Cancel Payslip` button, located at the top of the payslip form.

.. important::
   In order for a payslip to be paid, the employee *must* have a bank account entered in their
   contact information. If there is no bank information, a payslip cannot be paid, and an error will
   appear when the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button is clicked. Banking information can be found in
   the `Private Information` tab on the employee's card. Edit the employee card, and add banking

>    information, if it is missing.

Author: Ahh.. I was torn! I always use so many, I thought this one might not need it if it was descriptive as opposed to "click this"- but I see why it should have a GUI.

breadcrumb menu, click :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` to go back to the list view of all payslips.

A new payslip can be created from the :guilabel:`Employee Payslips` page, by clicking the
:guilabel:`Create` button in the upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a separate blank payslip form
page. On that blank payslip form page, enter all the necessary information, as described in the
:ref:`Create a new payslip <payroll/new-payslip>` section.

To print payslips to a PDF from the :guilabel:`Payslips to Pay` or :guilabel:`Employee Payslips`
pages, first select the desired payslips by clicking on the individual checkbox next to each payslip
to be printed. Or, click the box next to :guilabel:`Reference`, which selects all visible payslips
on the page. Then, click the :guilabel:`Print` button to print the payslips to a PDF file.

.. image:: payslips/print.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the Print smart button to print payslips to a PDF.

Payslips can also be exported to an Excel spreadsheet. When exporting, all payslips will be exported
regardless if some are checked off/selected or not. Click on the :guilabel:`Export All` smart

> button (download icon) to export all payslips to an Excel spreadsheet.

Author: I wish- I cannot find an emoji that is similar enough. If you find one/know one please let me know! But I have nothing that looks right.

Once the draft payslips are created, the button changes to say :guilabel:`Make Payment`. Click the
:guilabel:`Make Payment` button. A pop-up window appears, in which the bank journal information must
be entered. Select the :guilabel:`Bank Journal` from the drop-down list, and click
:guilabel:`Confirm` to process the payslips, and pay the employees.

On the batch detail page, the number of payslips in the batch is accessible via the
:guilabel:`Payslips` smart button, located in the top-right corner. Individual payslips for the
batch can be viewed by clicking the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top-right corner.

Use the breadcrumb menu to navigate back to the individual batch detail page, or back to the list of
all batches.

.. image:: payslips/payslip-batches.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the Payslips smart button to view the ndividual payslips in the batch.

Create a new batch
------------------

To create a new batch of payslips from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`), click the :guilabel:`Create` button in the
upper-left corner. Doing so reveals a blank batch payslip detail form on a separate page.

> .. image:: payslips/create-batch.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Click the Create smart button to create a new batch.

Reviewer 2: I think your instructions are clear enough that this image is not necessary, can remove :)
```suggestion
```

On this blank batch payslip detail form, enter the :guilabel:`Name` for the batch, and select the

> date range to which the batch applies, by clicking the drop-down arrows in the :guilabel:`Period`
> fields, which reveals a calendar pop-up window. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the
> correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.

Reviewer 2: Add a :guilabel: to the icon
```suggestion
date range to which the batch applies, by clicking the :guilabel:`▼ (drop-down arrow)` icon in the
:guilabel:`Period` fields, which reveals a calendar pop-up window. From this calendar pop-up window,
navigate to the correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.
```

> On this blank batch payslip detail form, enter the :guilabel:`Name` for the batch, and select the
> date range the batch applies to, by clicking the drop-down arrows in the :guilabel:`Period` fields,
> which reveals a calendar pop-up. From this calendar pop-up, navigate to the correct month, and click
> on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this blank batch payslip detail form, enter the :guilabel:`Name` for the batch, and select the
date range to which the batch applies, by clicking the drop-down arrows in the :guilabel:`Period`
fields, which reveals a calendar pop-up window. From this calendar pop-up window, navigate to the
correct month, and click on the corresponding day for both the start and end dates.
```

.. image:: payslips/new-batch-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the details for the new batch.

> If the batch is a credit note, check the box next to :guilabel:`Credit Note`. In the
> :guilabel:`Generation Date` field, select the date the payslips should be generated from a calendar
> pop-up. This generated date is reflected in the accounting journal entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the batch is a credit note, check the box next to :guilabel:`Credit Note`. Then, in the
:guilabel:`Generation Date` field, select the date the payslips should be generated from a calendar
pop-up window. This generated date is reflected in the accounting journal entries.
```

Lastly, in the :guilabel:`Company` field, select the company these payslips are written against.

When all the information on the batch payslip detail form is correct, click the :guilabel:`Save`
button to save the information. To delete the entry, click the :guilabel:`Discard` button.

To create the payslips for the newly-created batch, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` button
at the top of the form.

> When clicked, a pop-up appears showing all the payslips that will be created. To remove any
> individual payslips, click the black :guilabel:`🗙 (clear)` icon at the far right of the payslip line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When clicked, a pop-up window appears showing all the payslips that will be created. To remove any
individual payslips, click the black :guilabel:`🗙 (clear)` icon at the far-right of the payslip
line.
```

If a specific :guilabel:`Salary Structure` or :guilabel:`Department` needs to be specified for the
batch, select them from the corresponding drop-down menus.

> Click the :guilabel:`Generate` button at the bottom of the pop-up to create the payslips for the
> batch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Generate` button at the bottom of the pop-up window to create the payslips for
the batch.
```

.. image:: payslips/generate-payslips.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Generata payslips for the new batch.

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
   :alt: Generate payslips for the new batch.
```

   :alt: Generata payslips for the new batch.

.. note::

>    On the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up, selecting a :guilabel:`Department` and/or
>    :guilabel:`Salary Structure` only displays payslips that apply to those specifically-selected
>    parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` pop-up window, selecting a :guilabel:`Department` and/or
   :guilabel:`Salary Structure` only displays payslips that apply to those specifically-selected
   parameters.
```

If there are any errors or issues preventing the payslips from being generated, a detailed error
message appears in the top-right section. This error box disappears on its own after several

> seconds, or the 'X' can be clicked to close the alert.

Reviewer 2: Use guilabel for active elements :)
```suggestion
seconds, or the :guilabel:`✖ (close)` icon can be clicked to close the alert.
```

> message appears in the top-right section. This error box disappears after several seconds, or the
> 'X' can be clicked to close the alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
message appears in the top-right section. This error box disappears on its own after several
seconds, or the 'X' can be clicked to close the alert.
```

> To remedy the issue, make any necessary modifications (such as removing any payslip lines that
> cannot be processed), then click the :guilabel:`Generate` button again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remedy the issue, make any necessary modifications (e.g. removing any payslip lines that cannot
be processed), then click the :guilabel:`Generate` button again.
```

Once the payslips have been successfully generated, the screen returns to the batch payslip detail
form.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Generate Draft Entry` button to change the payslips status from

> *Draft* to *Done*.

Reviewer 2: This is UI text within the active instruction, so it gets a :guilabel:
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Draft` to :guilabel:`Done`.
```

*Draft* to *Done*.

Once payslips have been generated, click the :guilabel:`Make Payment` button to process the

> payments. Doing so reveals a pop-up in which the proper banking information must be entered. On this
> pop-up, select the appropriate :guilabel:`Bank Journal` from the drop-down, and enter the file name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
payments. Doing so reveals a pop-up window, in which the proper banking information must be entered.
On this pop-up window, select the appropriate :guilabel:`Bank Journal` from the drop-down menu, and
enter the appropriate file name.
```

When done, click the :guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the information, or click
:guilabel:`Cancel` to discard.

> .. image:: payslips/confirm-payslips.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Confirm the bank details for the new payslips.

Reviewer 2: I also feel like this image can be removed since your instruction is sufficient :) 

```suggestion
```

Generate commission payslips
----------------------------

Commission payslips can be generated directly from the :guilabel:`Payslips Batches` page
(:menuselection:`Payroll app --> Payslips --> Batches`). To generate commission payslips from this

> page, click on the desired batch (or batches) to create commissions payslips for, the click the
> :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslips` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page, click on the desired batch (or batches) to create commissions payslips for, then click the
:guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslips` button.
```

> .. image:: payslips/commission.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: Click the Generate Commission Payslips to create commission payslips.

Reviewer 2: This one too– can be removed. These are suggestions to reduce the amount of images in the doc, they certainly are helpful so please keep them if you feel like they should stay 🙂
```suggestion
```

Author: I trust your judgement! I removed these- I realized they can seem redundant. I tend to add too many pics, so I appreciate the feedback.

> Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslip` pop-up, in which necessary information
> must be filled out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so reveals a :guilabel:`Generate Commission Payslip` pop-up window, in which the necessary
information **must** be filled out.
```

.. image:: payslips/commission-details.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the commission details.

> On this pop-up, click on the drop-down menus beside the :guilabel:`Period` field to reveal calendar
> pop-ups. On these calendar pop-ups, select the desired period for which the payslips are being
> generated. Using the left and right arrow, navigate to the correct month, and click on the date to
> select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this pop-up window, click on the drop-down menus, located beside the :guilabel:`Period` field, to
reveal calendar pop-up windows. On these calendar pop-up windows, select the desired period for
which the payslips are being generated. Using the left and right arrows, navigate to the correct
month, and click on the date to select it.
```

In the :guilabel:`Department` field, select the desired department from the drop-down menu.

When a department is selected, the employees listed for that department appear in the
:guilabel:`Employee` section.

Under the :guilabel:`Employee` section, enter the :guilabel:`Commission Amount` for each employee in

> the appropriate column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (delete)` icon to remove
> the line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the appropriate column. To remove an employee, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (delete)` icon to remove the
line.
```

Add a new entry by clicking :guilabel:`Add a Line`, and entering the :guilabel:`Employee` and the
appropriate :guilabel:`Commission Amount`.

Click the :guilabel:`Upload Your File` button to add a file, if necessary. Any file type is
accepted.

Using the drop-down menu beside the :guilabel:`Commission Type` field, select either
:guilabel:`Classic Commission` or :guilabel:`Warrant`. :guilabel:`Classic` is the most typical of

> commission, while :guilabel:`Warrant` is primarily used for Belgium companies only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commission, while :guilabel:`Warrant` is primarily used for Belgium companies.
```
